1-2 Answer the following questions (the information can be found in e.g. the RFCs that describe DNS).
a) What is an authoritative name server? What is its role in DNS.
An authoritative name server is a server that does not need to reference other servers to resolve queries.

b) What is the difference between a domain and a zone.
A zone is a part of a domain. The domain liu.se contains ida.liu.se but the zone ida.se does not contain ida.liu.se.

c) What is the difference between a recursive and a non-recursive query in DNS? When is each type of query used.
A recursive DNS query is one which will place all the load on the one server you queried. That server will do all the job of finding what you are looking for. A non-recursive will pass the responibility on to a different server.

d) What is the purpose of delegation in DNS.
Scalability and load distributing.

e) What is a resource record? What does a resource record consist of.
Resource records are used to resolve all DNS queries. It conatins IP information and hostname.

f) DNS messages contain answer, authority and additional sections. What is the purpose of each section.
answer: one bit indicating if the DNS server is authoritative for the queried hostname
authority: indicating the authority for the query.
additional sections: other information relevant to the query (recursion desired, recursion available, response code etc.)

g) How does the DNS protocol indicate if an answer comes from an authoritative name server or not? How does the DNS protocol indicate whether a query is recursive or not.
1. The AA bit is set.
2. The RD bit is set.

h) Explain what glue records are and when they are necessary.


1-3 Which zone in DNS contains PTR records corresponding to IP addresses in the network 10.131.24.64/27? Name some other networks that have PTR records in the same zone. What is the problem with delegating authority over the DNS records corresponding only to 10.131.24.64/27.

1-4 Explain the purpose of classless in-addr.arpa delegation. Explain how it works.

--

2-1 Use the host tool to answer the following questions.

a) What is the address of informatix.ida.liu.se.

b) What is the address of www.ida.liu.se.

c) What is the address of liu.se.

2-2 Compare the output of host www.ida.liu.se ns3.liu.se and host www.ida.liu.se dns.liu.se and answer the following questions.

a) Why is there no answer in the first query but in the second query.

b) Both answers are correct, even though they differ. Explain why.

Report: Answers to the questions above. With additional command line options, host can be used to extract other information from the domain name system. The full details are in the man page for host. The following are some of the more common and useful options (these apply to the BIND 9 version of host; earlier versions have slightly different options.

-- 

3-1 Use host to find out which name servers are authoritative for the zone adlibris.se. Which organization(s) operate them.

3-2 Use host to list all records in the ida.liu.se zone and wc to count them. How many records are there? If this is temporarily unavailable (181017), go on through the tasks.

3-3 Use host to find out all information you can about the name ida.liu.se (i.e. the name itself, not the contents of the zone). What did you find out? How can you be sure that is all the information that is available.

Report: The commands used above and answers to the questions.

--
4-1 Use dig to answer the following questions. If the tests below fail, do this for www.ida.liu.se.

a) What is the address of parlomba1.ida.liu.se.

b) Which nameservers have authoritative information for parlomba1.ida.liu.se.

c) Which name corresponds to the IPv4 address 130.236.180.77.

4-2 Use the trace feature of dig to answer the following questions.

a) What nameservers are consulted in a query for the A record of www.ida.liu.se.

b) What nameservers are consulted when determining the address of update.microsoft.com? Note that the presence of a CNAME record makes this question different from the previous one: you will need to run dig more than once to get the answer.

Report: Answers to all the questions above, including the commands used.




